contract crews hired by the Bureau of
Land Management were on Lord Table Rock
recently pouring a foam plug in the
mouth of a shaft near the face of the
cliff that rises over the Rogue River in
Sam's Valley nobody is sure who dug this
hole estimated to be about 300 feet deep
but BLM officials are worried somebody
could fall in and be seriously hurt or
killed this particular shaft was brought
to our attention because of of online
videos of people performing stunts
jumping across the opening here and so
it was something that we we felt needed
to be closed for public health and
safety
Christian is part of a BLM task force
searching for dangerous mine shafts and
other diggings that could become death
traps the presence of several such
excavations on Table Rock has long been
rumored but nobody seems to have a good
explanation for who dug them or why just
guesses mostly from Indian diggings to
natural caves to gold mines you've got a
cap Rock of a you know seven years seven
million year old basalt that is variably
you know 200 to 300 feet thick and
underlying that you've got an e Essene
sandstone formation and you've got some
gravels where there was an original
river channel that passed through here
and you know there's always been rumors
that people have found gold around the
edges of the table rocks in that gravel
and so some industrious person back in
the day actually decided to sink his
shaft actually several shafts three
shafts through the cap rock to try and
and hit that gravel and hit pay dirt
this is one of those shafts more than
300 feet deep that was capped by the BLM
several years ago there were piles of
tailings also nearby gravel and rock dug
and blasted out of the holes by someone
decades ago this trench was apparently
another effort to dig down through what
is some of the hardest stone known you
know it looks like they tried at one
point to drive a tunnel and hit the
gravel from below through the talus
slope and they gave up on that effort
and figured it would be easier to punch
down through the top and that's you know
that's just an incredible amount of
moving rock and there's no production
records to tell us you know whether they
were successful so I did I'm guessing
that they probably didn't find a whole
lot of gold here old cans and bottles
blasting wire and fuel barrels in the
trees and brush below the cliffs on the
east side of Table Rock are some of the
clues as to who went to all this work
but nobody really knows for sure
based on the artifacts that we found it
looks like it was probably in the 1950s
but the range of the artifacts gives the
date anywhere from the 1930s up through
the 1960s across the valley a little
ways had Upper Table Rock someone did
file a mine claim in 1954 but nothing
here this work was done anonymously for
many people including BLM officials and
miners it's always been in a mystery as
to why anyone would try to tunnel down
through basalt rock several hundred feet
through this stuff they may have been
looking for gold it's hard to tell
though if anything was ever really found
because there just aren't any records to
show what actually came of it all on
Table Rock Ron Brown Newswatch 12